#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass report
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{tgpagella}
\usepackage[top = 15mm, left= 15mm, right=15mm]{geometry}
\usepackage{titlesec}
\usepackage{xcolor}
\definecolor{brown}{HTML}{6623E2}
\titleformat*{\section}{\Large\textit}
\titleformat*{\subsection}{\large\textit}
\renewcommand*\abstractname{\flushleft\textbf{Abstract}\hfill}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
logicalmkup
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder true
\pdf_colorlinks false
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
A review of ...
\series bold

\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Cyber-Physical Modeling of Implantable Cardiac Medical Devices 
\emph on
(Jiang et al.)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Arnav Goyal - 251244778
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
ECE 3350 - Cyber-Physical Systems Theory; Course Project
\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter*
My Notes
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Things to refer back to in the future enclosed in square brackets: [.]
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

keywords are 
\emph on
emphasized 
\emph default
and broken down (explained) if need be.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Abstract
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Creating the software that is used in wearable medical devices (typicall
 complex implants) that control/acutuate organs (i.e pacemakers) is challenging
 due to bugs and user-safety.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Of all the safety recalls of pacemakers / other cardiac implants, 41% of
 these were due to firmware issues, this trend seems to be going up.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
[Paper's motivation] There is no formal way to test and verify the correct
 operation of medical device [cardiac defib implant] software; which is
 what the paper aims to solve by creating a time-automata model of a virtual
 heart.
 Called the virtual heart model (VHM).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
[Possible paper link?] The word 
\emph on
timed-automata model
\emph default
 can be broken down into its constituents.
 
\emph on
Automata
\emph default
 refers to a machine capable of performing certain computations, 
\emph on
timed-automata
\emph default
 refers to an automata that incorporates a sense of time into its behaviour
 (computations effected by time).
 Therefore a 
\emph on
time-automata model
\emph default
 describes a model/representation of a machine that is capable of computation
 while incorporating time into its computation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
The 
\emph on
closed-loop
\emph default
 
\emph on
context
\emph default
 of a patient refers to an environment where there are feedback mechanisms
 present; in this situation it would be systems to regulate the hearts bpm
 or blood pressure (i think thats hearts also do this?).
 Which is kinda hard to do without implanting the device, hence this VHM
 developed has these things built-into it.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Pacemakers, and other heart implants that regulate heartbeat fall under
 the term 
\emph on
implantable cardiac defibrillators (ICDs).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
My god pacemakers arent easy devices to make - 80k to 100k loc.
 in them.
 Also seems like the buggy software/firmware has caused a lot of urgent
 implant recalls.
 Which are seemingly happening more often, for the following (extremely
 not scary) reason 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

reasonable probability that use of these products will cause serious adverse
 health consequences or death.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
There is a need for, but no real (accurate, standard, and formal) way to
 test, validate and verify the software within ICDs.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
In other safety-critical environments, standards are enforced for a safe
 software development life-cycle.
 The Medical industry has some challenges:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Current evaluation of devices is done in an open-loop context - which is
 unable to ensure that the product will never drive the patient into an
 unsafe state.
 To ensure this, closed-loop context testing is required.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
There are very few high-quality patient models (and relevant simulators)
 for device design
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
The treatment offered by these ICDs must be able to adapt to the patients
 current state, there is a need for validation algorithms to ensure that
 the device control and optimization of ICDs can cover large classes of
 patient conditions.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection*
FDA & Device Software
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
FDA doesnt review software during pre-market submission.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
They have recommendations for software evaulation, but no hard standards
 for software verification.
 testing, validation, and verification to show its safe and effective are
 all on the mfg.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
[My opinion] Software is only reviewed under a device recall, they should
 probably review software that they certify.
 Isnt that the whole point of safety?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection*
Current Testing, V&V Approaches
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Current testing involves playing back a recorded ECG signal, and seeing
 if the pacemaker triggers a response.
 This testing is context independent, is this response correct for the patient?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Something called 
\emph on
pacemaker mediated tachycardia (PMT)
\emph default
 is a condition where the pacemaker (inappropriately) drives the heart rate
 towards the upper rate limit (This sounds super safe!!! and not dangerous
 at all!!)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
[Possible paper link?] Some formal methods have recetly been used for medical
 device safety, In these papers the authors either used a simplified patient
 model, or did not model the patient at all.
 I think this is redundant because everyone is different, and has a different
 heart, thus specific testing should be required before someone implants
 something into their heart.
 Just because something 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

generally works
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

, it doesn't guarantee that it will work for your specific case.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection*
Methodology for Closed-loop ICD Safety
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
The authors made three things.
 1) a VHM and pacemaker model for clinically relevant test generation.
 2) a set of general/patient condition-based software requirements for a
 pacemaker that ensures that safety is met under ALL cases.
 3) a means to test/verify the closed-loop system over simple and complex
 closed-loop tests.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Model Based Design for Medical Devices
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Model based design is widely-used, and enables constant V&V from the early
 stages of development
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
This paper is focuses on developing a system and methods for system-level
 testing and verification of ICDs
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
To do this, they develop a model of the heart and a pacemaker to be the
 correct complexity such that it can be verified/validated, and such that
 is is physiologically relevant.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
They define verification & validation; Verification is showing that you
 can do what you intended to do; Validation is showing that what you intended
 to do was the right thing to do.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection*
Previous Heart Modeling Efforts
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
The hardest part about correctly modeling anything is to pick the correct
 LOD, too accurate and it is slow, too vague and it is useless.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
A good heart model should capture the electrophysiological EP properties
 of the heart (conduction / timing signals) and generate functional signals
 which are used as inputs to the device.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Lots of other heart models have previously been created, all of them are
 complex and used for various other reasons (i.e studying fluid flow in the
 heart), these are too complex for this use-case
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Furthermore, those models have thousands of parameters, in contrast, a pacemaker
 only has 2 or 3 electrodes (parameters) to work with!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection*
Requirements for Model-Based, Closed-loop V&V
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
For model based V&V a framework should verify/test a device (or a model
 of the device) in closed-loop with the heart.
 Thus the main part is the model of the heart (which will interface with
 the device)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
A good heart model shouls satisy a few requirements: the model must cover
 normal and abnormal heart function; the model should be simple enough to
 abstract the timing and electrical conduction as these are the only things
 that interact with the pacemaker; a good heart model takes into account
 that a device model might operate differently than when it is actually
 implanted, thus a physical testbed must be developed.
 They can implement the VHM on simulink, and extract HDL code from it, which
 can be implement on an FPGA device.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection*
Overview of VHM
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
The result was the development of VHM, an integrated framework for V&V of
 ICDs.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
A formal heart model which captures the timing and electrical conduction
 properties of the heart was developed
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Two different simulink models were developed, both implementing the same
 system (VHM).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Understanding the Heart Function
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
